# Purna Gamage

- Associate Teaching Professor and Director of Data Science and Analytics Program

Dr. Purna Gamage is Program Director, Associate Teaching Professor of Data Science and Analytics Master's program at Georgetown University. Dr. Purna also serves as a member of the Graduate Executive Committee ("Grad ExCo"),  Executive Council and Executive Board of the Honor Council at Georgetown University. Having previously worked at Texas Tech University and Wake Forest University, she brings a wealth of experience to her role. Dr. Purna received her PhD in Mathematics majoring in Statistics in 2018 and Master’s Degree in Statistics from Texas Tech University for her research in Bayesian Hierarchical Modeling, Spatial and Temporal Data Analysis, and Ecological Statistics. Dr. Purna's research is centered on leveraging Machine Learning models, Natural Language Processing (NLP), Deep Learning, LLMTime, Transformer based Models and Time Series analysis in various domains. Her current work involves exploring the comparative effectiveness of Traditional Time Series Modeling and Deep Learning Models on Stock Market dynamics; a comprehensive comparison of Time-LLMs and Traditional Financial Time Series Modeling to assess predictive power. Other areas of her research include predicting disease risk levels related to heavy metal exposure in the US and integrating Text Analysis with Time Series Modeling using Multivariate Bayesian Structural Time Series for a holistic approach to forecasting Stock Markets using News and Congressional Bills Data. Dr. Purna collaborates on data-driven projects(in civil Engineering), enhancing Flexible Pavement Performance Prediction through a comprehensive study on Convective Heat Transfer Coefficient. Additionally, she mentored capstone students on a multifaceted analysis of Equitable Fines and Fees and their impact on returning citizens in Washington, D.C and optimizing Flower Farming for Waste Reduction and Profit Maximization with the Lima Lab.

Furthermore, she actively engages in curriculum development and student services, overseeing program administration and faculty management. Dr. Purna has devoted her time to advancing the program and enhancing the student experience. She is dedicated to student advising and mentoring, fostering industry collaboration, and facilitating partnerships with universities in the DMV area. She actively collaborates with Georgetown University Graduate School's Interdisciplinary programs and ensures quality assurance in educational initiatives. Moreover, she drives the integration of cutting-edge technologies into the curriculum, leads new initiatives, and advocates for professional development and beyond.

## Academic Appointment(s)

PrimaryAssociate Teaching Professor, Graduate - Program in Data Analytics